Retail Dining: Monetary Mosquito or Satiating Savior?


Don’t expect your wallet to be full after eating around campus


Tired of the monotonous dining hall menu options? Want a cheap fix to settle your rumbling tummy? Mason Dining has much to offer, but you’ll be hard-pressed to find any affordable choices. 

There are a plethora of locations besides the dining halls to choose from on-campus, ranging from popular fast-food chains to Mason originals.

It is hard to deny the convenience of the Johnson Center’s food court. With nine out of Mason’s 19 retail dining locations calling the Johnson Center home, the ease of grabbing a meal on-the-go in the heart of campus will run the typical consumer about $12.50 per meal, before tax and excluding Mason’s own currency.  

If you’re looking to grab a bite elsewhere, your options will be severely limited. A Chick-fil-A nests in the basement of SUB I, and a cluster of three restaurants reside in Merten Hall — Panda Express, Manhattan Pizza and Einstein Bros. Bagels — an 8-minute walk from the Johnson Center. For those running on a tight schedule, this is out of the way from most academic buildings.

Another major drawback keeping these establishments from being more enjoyable is the lack of access to their respective mobile order apps. 

Commonplace since the pandemic, mobile apps allow consumers to earn rewards, get app-exclusive deals and skip the tedium of waiting in line by ordering ahead. However, only five locations allow for students to utilize their app on campus — two of which are Starbucks. 

For dining options that don’t feature their apps, the available alternative is Mason’s knights in shining armor themselves: Starship robots. 

Even though the traversable robots roaming around campus are adorable, their effectiveness at doing their job is debatable. Often delivering the wrong order, jostling one’s drink around or charging staggering amounts of money, Starship’s risks outweigh its rewards.   

That isn’t to exclude slightly off-campus sites either, since meals at the Wendy’s in the University Mall at the intersection of Braddock Road and Ox Road cost significantly less than anything available on campus.

Following the abrupt closure of Banditos Tacos announced via Instagram earlier this semester, the utility of the already derelict University Mall has narrowed. Banditos was a Mason staple, hosting events for the student body and providing a discount to those dining in. 

This is not the only closure the mall has seen; McDonald’s closed their doors prior to the fall 2025 semester with similarly little notice.

Other nearby options are exorbitantly pricier. A “handheld” at Oh George! starting from $18.50 is out of reach for most Mason students, especially those running tight on cash. Velocity Bar & Kitchen’s signature wings are priced at a whopping $15 for six traditional wings. 

Though these places are not meant to cater to every person and price range, their close proximity to campus puts them in a unique position to fill the void left by their extinct compatriots.

As for opportunities in Old Town Fairfax to get a good meal, several eateries lie within the price range of $10 to $30. From trendy pastries at Layered. to Irish pub food from The Auld Shebeen, its versatility is unmatched. Yet, with this diversity comes the cost of paying Northern Virginia prices.

Even worse, the corresponding student deals for various restaurants in and around Fairfax are rarely advertised by Mason. In one of my own recent outings, I spent nearly $25 on dinner with a friend, not knowing I could’ve gotten a 10% discount. Albeit not a huge reduction, every penny counts for most college students.   

These “Patriot Perks” apply to more than simple dining discounts, as they are applicable to services such as rental cars, travel and even legal aid. Why not promote a service to students that would help stretch their dollar and ease the financial burden of balancing tuition and a decent outing?

In observing the various options both on and around campus, this forever fuels the debate of whether quantity of choices directly translates to quality of food. My verdict? Next time you want to grab a bite, consider whether or not you want this culinary vampire to suck your bank account dry. Sometimes it’s better to just sacrifice a meal swipe, even at the cost of your taste buds. 