Expanding Fenwick Library hours: a necessary step for student success


Longer library hours support academic achievement and student well-being.


As a biology pre-med student in the Honors College at Mason, I know first-hand how challenging it is to find a quiet study space on a consistent basis—especially as a commuter.

Certain class time slots can run up to ten p.m. at night, well beyond an average work day. Every time I leave my long labs and head to Fenwick Library (Fenwick), I average one or two hours of productive work before the loudspeaker announces the library is closing. It’s frustrating and discouraging, especially when I’m locked into a deep study session, only to be forced to stop.

Mason emphasizes academic success and student empowerment yet lacks a key resource that so many other universities provide: a 24/7 library. Many students, both commuters and those living on campus, share this same frustration. 

“I study and grasp concepts better at night when there are fewer distractions. The fact that Fenwick isn’t open 24/7 is borderline insulting—many other institutions provide late-night library access, yet George Mason falls short once again. I’m not asking for special treatment; I’m asking for access to a study space that my tuition helps fund,” said sophomore Pierre Faransis, who is on the Pre-Dentistry track at Mason.

For many, Fenwick is the only place where they can focus without distractions, but with its current hours and limitations, that opportunity is cut short. With over 40,000 students at Mason, the small lobby space—one of the only areas open slightly later—can’t come close to meeting demand. 

And with Fenwick being the only library on Fairfax campus, students have no alternative when they need a quiet place to study at the times that work best for them.

At first, I thought this was just a personal struggle. But after bringing it up with classmates and friends, I realized it was a much bigger issue. No one seemed to know why Fenwick wasn’t open later. 

I saw that a lot of students felt the same way, so I figured I would try to do something about it. I don’t have any experience with student government or any process regarding making changes to the university, but I started a petition (which can also be found below) to get students talking. When people started signing and sharing it, it became clear that this was a significant issue that needed attention. There are 75 signatures so far!

I plan to attend student cabinet meetings and continue advocating for this issue to escalate progress. Mason should attempt to maintain an environment that supports student success at all hours, not just during the most convenient times. Education doesn’t have a time limit, and neither should our access to the resources that help us succeed.

The students have spoken. It’s time for change.